# FinTechCaseStudy
## Overview and Origin
* Subject of This Case Study
  * The name of the company, and the subject of thise brief case study, is Canalyst. Canalyst is an Equity Research firm, based in Vancouver, that is leveraging newer, and more powerful technologies in order to provide investors/hedge funds/money managers with up-to-date information about their holdings significantly faster than traditional equity research firms(1).
* When was the Company Founded? Why?
  * The company was incorporated in 2015, and their intial product launch featured 500 equity models. Canalyst was started in a basement office in Vancouver, and has since expanded into multiple offices. The founders of the company are James Rife and Damir Hot. James Rife built the first version of the Canalyst product himself when he was unable to find anything that he needed in the open marketplace. Prior to founding Canalyst, James had 10 years of experience in Equity Research and Portfolio Management. Prior to Canalyst, Damir was VP of Customer Development at Metafor Software, which was a machine-learning startup that was eventually acquired by NetApp in 2010. Canalyst was created out of necessity by James Rife, who was a former buy-side analyst that required a more efficient way to exapnd equity coverage and quickly compare a broad range of companies within certain industries and sectors. The tech behind Canalyst was initally started as a tool to save time and to become more competitive. However, as time went on, there was increasing interest from other institutonal investors. Now, Canalyst supplies research to a wide range of clients across the world. 
* Funding
  * Canalyst has gone through an original seed round, and two more rounds of funding. In August of 2016, Canalyst closed a $2.7m Seed Round which was led by Vanedge Capital to expand their platform(2). The Vanedge-led investment enabled Canalyst to accelerate its entry into the Canadian and US markets while continuing to invest in cloud-based product R&D. This was Vanedge's second fintech investment, the first fintech investment being the payment analytics company, Control. 
  * Canalyst then announced in June of 2017 that they received a closed Series A funding round investement from angel investing firm, WorldQuant Ventures. The angle investing firm has a focus on disruptive companies in technology, with  particular focus on Data and Finance. The WorldQuant Ventures’ investment allowed Canalyst to enhance its cloud based, on-demand equity model database by enabling continued investment in analytics capabilities, and expansion of its breadth of coverage for small- and mid-cap companies(3).
  * Back in January of 2020, Canalyst announced that they closed a $20m Series B financing round. The round was led by a private investor, and received additional commitments from ScaleUP Ventures and existing investors such as Vanedge Capital. Canalyst used the new capital to spend on recruiting new talent in the areas of product enhancements and client service. This past round of funding brought Canalysts total funding to $28m(4). 
## Business Activities:
* Solving Financial Servcies Problems
  * Canalyst builds financial models that are used by Analysts, Portfolio Managers, and Institutional Investors in order to track over 4,000 North American public equities. Building financial models can be very time-constraining to build, and can also be built with inaccruate data. Shifting industry trends, cost pressures, and regulation all result in investors turning to external data providers and technology to find and delvier alpha for their own portfolios, or for their cleints'. Industry trends are constantly diverting attention away from small and mid-cap equity research. At this time, the rise of index and passive investing causes large-cap concentration on the buyside, and cost pressures force sellside firms to reduce their coverage of smaller names. Now more than ever, institutional buyside investors are turning to external data providers, such as Canalyst, to find ways to incorporate the use of financial technology to find and deliver alpha for their clients. By providing an enormous database of financial models, institutional investors can begin to focus more on the small- and mid-cap names, and need far less time to deliver investment thesis' to their clients(5).
 * Market Size of Intended Customers
   * Canalyst is disrupting the entire Equity Research and Data Vendors financial industry with their platform. Institutional investors have never had an ideal solution for their financial modelling needs. Usually, these large institutional investors would turn to data vendors for their financial data, which relied heavily on outsourcing. Hand-built financial models can capture a company's financial performance and position very well, but the models are often difficult to use and compare to others. The Equity Research market is difficult to measure as there are large banks who provide research, as well as smaller, more niche firms who sell their research. Suffice to say, instituional investors are willing to pay for quality research. 
* Canalyst's Technologies
  * Canalyst uses a 5-step verification process to build out and release their financial models to their clients. It is unclear what teh-chnology the company uses, or what programs they use to develop the models, but the output of the model results in an excel file for the clients where they can edit and adjust per their own assumptions and drivers. The 5-step verification model is as follows:
   * 1. Two separate analysts independently enter the data from public filings (10K's, 8k's, Press Releases, etc.)
   * 2. The models are then compared against each other by a proprietary software check
   * 3. Once validated, a sector speicalist will check off on the model
   * 4. A series of quantitative software checks is then done to make sure the model is runnign smoothly
   * 5. An email notification is then sent out to clients letting them know that the model is available for download from their portal
## Landscape:
* What domain of the financial industry is the company in?
  * As previosuly mentioned, Canalyst is involved in equity research, which is an entire financial industry within itself. Equity research allows investors of all kinds, from retail to institutional, to make more informed decisions regarding their investments. Financial models also allow investors to model specific scenarios, such as a stock split or a proposed merger. This way, should the company have any press releases regarding these scenarios, the investor will already have the playbook their hands. 
* Major Trends in Equity Research
  * The investment research industry has been profoundly affected by MiFID II. As previously mentioned, cost pressures force sellside firms to reduce their coverage of smaller names, and that trend has only accelerated since the introduction of MiFID II. The 'Markets in Financial Instruments Directive' is a European regulation that increases the transparency across the European Union's financial markets and also standardizes the regulatory disclosures required for financial firms operating in the European Union. Under this regulation, asset managers need to fund external research through their own P&L account, or through research audit accounts that can track audit trails. This regulation has put a strangle on Equity Research as many firms have had to cease coverage on smaller names dur to the time-value cost of producing the models(6).
* Competition
  * Canalyst is currently successfully disrupting a large industry. Some of the major players in Equity Research include: JP Morgan, Merril Lynch, Morgan Stanley, Evercore, Wells Fargo, UBS, Citi, Washington Analysis, Wolfe Research, among many more. 
## Results
* Canalyst Business Impact: Core Metrics and Performance
  * Canalyst has been steadily hiring, which has been funded through multiple rounds of financing and angel investing. The comapny has begun to attract top talent on Wall Street, and is also being relied upon by several top money managers. In an interview with a founder of a new fund, Canalyst sat down to learn more regarding how the founder is using their technology that help him save time, and support the operations of his early stage business. The founder mentioned he was struggling with two industry-specific trends in fundamental data:
   * The equity coverage by data vendors of a broad universe relied too heavily on computers and outsourcing for data entry and;
   * Hand-built models, which capture individual company details and drivers, weren't uniform enough and were impossible to compare.
  * The founder, unsatisfied with his options, turned to Canalyst for help. With a database of 4,000+ models, the founder was able to use the models in their database, and was able to trust the accuracy of the historicals because of how clean the data is. Every Canalyst model is built and updated using company filings, which allows Canalyst clients reading annual reports, searching for new investment ideas, talking to companies and management, interacting with clients, and pithcing to investors. The founder used Canalyst and one of their new products, called 'The Updater', to automatically merge the latest reported financial results and operating statistics to the clinets customized Canalyst model. The founder also claims that Canalyst essentially serves as the in-house analyst, at a fraction of a regular analysts' salary. Aside from the cost-savings of having Canalyst as his own in-house analyst, the founder also shared his view of the need to remain available to his clients' different needs and wants(8). 
## Recommendations
* Product Suggestions
  * If I was an adviser to Canalyst, I would advise the comapny to leverage their current technology from individual company financial models, to begin creating industry-wide models. For example, if an analyst is looking into a Junior Gold Miner, one of the biggest drivers of the company will be the price of gold. If gold prices fall within the industry-wide model, then that drop in price would have an effect on the model/valuation of the Junior Miner. Being able to read indsutry reports and compare/connect those industry-wide models to individual company models would add a lot of value for money managers. In an individual financial model, there can be scenarios for such a drop in price, however, in an industry as large as gold/precious metals, being able to identify current macro-economic trends, and apply those trends to the financial model without having to change the format of it, would prove very beneficial. 
  * Offering this type of product/service would also allow Canalyst to disrupt the Market Research industry. Large market researchers such as Frontier Data, Nielsen, Kantar, Wood Mackenzie, bring in billions in revenue each year. Thier reports are widely used by analysts all over the world and are relied upon for crucial data figures. An individual report can cost thousands of dollars. Canalyst could offer these industry/market reports along with their growing database of over 4,000+ financial models, and combine the two databases to feed information off of eachother to be able to produce top-quality models, backed-up by top-quality research. 
## References / Links 
1.	https://canalyst.com/
2.	https://www.bctechnology.com/news/2016/8/30/Canalyst-Closes-2.7-Million-Seed-Round-led-by-Vanedge-Capital-to-expand-Equity-Research-Platform.cfm
3.	https://www.bctechnology.com/news/2017/6/12/Angel-Investment-Firm-WorldQuant-Ventures-Invests-in-Vancouver-based-FinTech-Company-Canalyst.cfm
4.	https://www.bctechnology.com/news/2020/1/21/Canalyst-Announces-Close-of-20-Million-Series-B-Financing-to-Accelerate-Market-Expansion.cfm
5.	https://canalyst.com/library/interview-with-buyside-canalyst-client/
6.	https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/mifid-ii.asp#:~:text=MiFID%20II%20is%20a%20legislative,after%20the%202008%20financial%20crisis.
7.	https://www.ama.org/marketing-news/the-2017-ama-gold-global-top-25-market-research-companies/
8.	https://canalyst.com/library/newly-launched-fund-finds-way-to-stand-out-with-canalyst/
9.	https://betakit.com/equity-analysis-startup-canalyst-raises-20-million-series-b/
